# Genesys TF resource generator

This tool can be used to generate terraform resources for Genesys Cloud. This project is created using Typescript and handlebars template files that can help generate the code needed for a Genesys Cloud terraform resource. While every attempt was made to make this tool as robust as possible, not all resources are the same and some are entirely unique and unpredictable. In these rare situations the resource generator will not be able to generate an entire resource but should be able to help generate some boilerplate code and help get you started.

## Getting started
You will first need to run the following command to install all dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```
To generate a resource simply fill in all the information for the resource you are creating into the `config.yml` file. For more info on writing the config.yml file see [here](#configuration-file) for details. Once your config.yml file is written, run the following command:
```bash
npm start
```
For the best results, I recommend having *Go* installed locally to allow the output files to be formatted correctly. Go can be installed from [here](https://go.dev/dl/).

## Configuration file
The content of the `config.yml` will dictate how much or how little code is generated. This resource generator is able to create:
  * A full resource (all files with necessary logic)
  * A skeleton structure for a resource (all files created with most functions and no logic)
  * Skeleton structure test files

Config File properties:
  * package: The package name for the resource. This name is also be used for the name of the resource and in the resource file names.
  * mainObject: The object used by the APIs. Must be listed as a definition in the swagger docs.
  * operations: An array of objects with info for each operation the resource can perform. If the resource does not perform a specific operation e.g. a Delete operation, the delete object can be left out. Each operation object use a valid path that is listed in the swagger docs.

### Full resource config
Below is an example of a config file that could be used to generate a full resource. In this case it will generate a resource for outbound callabletimesets:

```yaml
package: outbound_callabletimeset
mainObject: CallableTimeSet
operations:
  - type: create
    method: POST
    path: /api/v2/outbound/callabletimesets
  - type: read
    method: GET
    path: /api/v2/outbound/callabletimesets/{callableTimeSetId}
  - type: update 
    method: PUT
    path: /api/v2/outbound/callabletimesets/{callableTimeSetId}
  - type: delete
    method: DELETE
    path: /api/v2/outbound/callabletimesets/{callableTimeSetId}
  - type: getAll
    method: GET
    path: /api/v2/outbound/callabletimesets
```

### Skeleton structure
To create a skeleton structure (boilerplate) for a resource, simple leave the operations property out of the config

```yaml
package: outbound_callabletimeset
mainObject: CallableTimeSet
```

### Test files
Tests are not able to be generated by the resource generator, but boilerplate test files can be created for the resource. To tell the resource generate test files simple add the following to the `config.yml`:
```yml
testFiles: true
```

## Project Limitations and need to knows
* A utils file will always be created
* If more that one object is used by the APIs, e.g. , then the resource generator can't be used
* Object Array properties are defined as lists in the schema. Nested object properties are defined as lists with MaxItems=1
* All data sources will use the name property
* init_test files will not be created